The President:
For the past few weeks,
I've been visiting folks across
America to talk about what
we need to do as a country
to secure a better bargain
for the middle class.
I've been laying out my ideas
for how we can build on the
cornerstones of what it means
to be middle class in America.
A good job.
A good education.
Affordable health care
when you get sick.
A secure retirement
even if you're not rich.
And the chance to
own your own home.
This week, I went to
Arizona and California,
two of the states hit hardest
when the housing bubble burst,
triggering the recession.
All across the country, millions
of responsible Americans were
hurt badly by the reckless
actions of others.
Home values plummeted.
Construction workers
were laid off.
And many families
lost their homes.
Over the past four years, we've
worked to help millions
of responsible homeowners
get back on their feet.
And while we're not
where we need to be yet,
our housing market
is beginning to heal.
Home prices and
sales are rising.
Construction is up.
Foreclosures are down.
Millions of families have come
up for air because they're
no longer underwater
on their mortgages.
Now we have to build
on this progress.
Congress should give every
American the chance to refinance
at today's low rates.
We should help more qualified
families get a mortgage
and buy their first home.
We should get construction
workers back on the job
rebuilding communities
hit hardest by the crisis.
And we should make sure that
folks who don't want to buy
a home have decent,
affordable places to rent.
As home prices rise, we
have to turn the page on the
bubble-and-bust mentality
that created this mess,
and build a housing system
that's rock-solid and rewards
responsibility for
generations to come.
That means winding down the
companies known as Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, making sure
private capital plays a bigger
role in the mortgage market,
and ending the era of expecting
a bailout after your pursuit of
profit puts the whole
country at risk.
We need to preserve access to
safe and simple mortgages
like the 30-year,
fixed-rate mortgage.
We need to keep laying down
rules of the road that protect
homeowners when they're making
the biggest purchase
of their lives.
And finally, Congress needs
to confirm Mel Watt to be our
nation's top housing regulator,
so that he can protect consumers
and help responsible
lenders provide credit.
No program or policy will
solve all the problems
in a multi-trillion dollar
housing market,
and it will take time
to fully recover.
But if we work together, we can
make a home a source of pride
and middle-class security again.
And if Washington is willing to
set aside politics and focus on
what really matters, we can
rebuild an economy where if you
work hard, you can get ahead.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.